---
layout: post
title: Quidam
image: /assets/img/blog/quidam/quidam.jpg

redirect_from: "/quidam/"
---

If I have ever seen _je ne sais quoi_ in motion, it is while watching Cirque du Soleil, and perhaps never so much so as with its production of _Quidam_.

The term “quidam” refers to a nameless passer-by, someone lost in the crowd. Always anonymous, it could be anyone or all of us. _Quidam_, the show, celebrates breaking free from the ambiguous majority to find a renewed individuality.

The story concerns Zoé, an ordinary girl who dreams of the extraordinary. Told in the quintessential Cirque way, her fable unfolds with a spellbinding blend of artistry, acrobatics, pageantry and color. It’s a live concert, a full-scale theater production, a circus and yet also something more. Like a dream, it’s not something you see but experience.

For young audiences, there is humor and clownish antics. For those who’ve seen more of life, there’s subtle drama, dance and a whimsical touch of mystery.

In terms of execution, it’s Cirque and therefore _absolument parfait_. The cast brings together the world’s top performers from nearly 20 countries. Each act, whether aerial dancing or human pyramids, features a world-class expert who will astound you in defiance of the laws of physics.

Meanwhile, music builds momentum and paces the show with a plot so loose as to be almost ethereal. Characters — from the central Zoé to her parents to the comic ringmaster — are vague but intriguing.

At its close, you’re left with the sense of a happy ending, perhaps without quite being able to say why.

That not-knowing is, after all, the essence of _je ne sais quoi_.

[Photo credit: Cirque du Soleil]